[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So I was just starting
with a little bit of a motivational
example of compose.
I'm gonna talk more about it,
I do wanna say I think this will work.
From this point forward,
that's our best friend right there.
Okay, we're not gonna be using _.compose,
_.map because
I needed to define different versions
of that to work with type classes and
categories and what not,
kinda dynamic dispatch stuff.
So don't use the ramda_.map or
_.compose here on out.
I'm sorry that's so confusing.
[LAUGH] I mean use it when
you're working with a arrays or
functions but don't use it.
Yeah, anyway so I just wanted to point out
that, so like there are some questions
in the chat that we launched about.
>> Speaker 1: Brian you didn't introduce
yourself.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I'm Brian,
hey [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 1: What do you do,
Brian?
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Let's see,
I own a consulting company
called Loop/Recur and
I teach functional
programming as a hobby and
I'm glad to be here.
>> Speaker 1: Dr.Boolean.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: [LAUGH] DrBoolean is me
on Twitter, check it out.
So let me just finish up part
one here with a quick last
question that happened over lunch.
Hi Manuel, [LAUGH].
And the point is that you might wanna
use this when you're just kind of
building up this function.
So over here we have our
application that's going to
first get an array by dashes.
What does that mean?
It's gonna split by dashes and
then we're gonna map the first upper.
What is the first upper?
The first upper is two upper and
grabbing the first character,
or we could be way more efficient and
grab the first character and do two upper.
The point is this should be,
this should read like a book.
So the next thing is how about
instead of app will make this,
getFirstUpperOfDashes, [LAUGH] and
then our app is now,
this getFirstUpperOfDashes,
it's gonna try to auto complete.
The composition of that and
some other function maybe like take one or
take two [LAUGH] take one said.
So at that point what we're doing
here is building up a function from
other functions there's no data going in.
It's just like a machine that you kinda
drop a coin in and when you drop the coin
in the coin being this argument that
goes in or up over here in the color.
Over here it's just functions
being combined with
other functions compose ability and
we're combining functions with data and
we're combining functions with functions.
One of the killer parts of compose
is if I ever really long compose,
let me make sure this works before
I keep talking, there you go.
If I'm like you know I didn't want to
take to get the head of that all right,
and I'll run that and there we go.
Well the point of this is
I've got three functions and
I can grab any sub, like any group and
pull that out into its own.
So I'll make this
innefficientHead [LAUGH],
inefficientHead, I don't
know how JS been works,
[LAUGH] we'll just find this first.
So what I'm doing here is
just extracting method,
quote-unquote and
into its own composition.
And now, it still works but the point is
that when you glue functions together
like this you can kinda just grab
the different parts, there's no data,
there's no roots deep in your application.
You're not depending on your
environment in implicit inputs.
Everything Joe went over in the first
part is leading up to where like
we should be comfortable with this right
here, cuz we're gonna go further and
it's gonna get insane.
Well looks like better over here, no it
doesn't, it looks like the same anyway.
[LAUGH] You know what?
There we go, yeah whatever.
But the whole point is that
you make your grammar and
then you use it as your application,
so what is my app do?
Well it gets the first upper of dashes and
then it does this inefficientHead on it.
And that's exactly what it's doing,
it's getting the first uppercase and
it's doing some inefficientHead on it.
And it's very readable and
very abstract and
high level and declarative any of
this can change under the hood.
So, and it's okay to use a function if you
need to, if this was really hard to write.
Like just write a function here and
do it this way, no big deal.
So let's use s substring, and
there we are cannot read toUpperCase,
so I think I broke that, do this one.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah you got to return.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Thank you guys,
that's what I heard you.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: So yeah, so
that was just to kinda sum that up,
maybe answer somebody's question
over lunch about why is this good?
We use it and be like, my gosh,
this is super declarative and
it's reading and like all I'm
doing is just composing bits and
making this machine that's waiting for,
it's like It's like those
vending machines where you put in
a quarter and you get out a result.
That's what's happening,
where the hell is our quarter and
w is our result and
it just goes through stuff.
Now, there's different, this is kinda
beautiful, we wrote apps like this for
like a year before we had any
idea of what a monad was.
And it's JavaScript, it's loose, you don't
really need to worry about that so much.
But there are so
many problems with doing it this way,
if you don't know how to
compose bigger things.
And that's what we're gonna
talk about in part two.
So let's dive into it.